Today, I'm going to show you an incredible time
saver that you may have never noticed in your
canvas course, it's the link validation tool. Got
any links in your course? Of course you do. Maybe
you've got a link to a canvas guide, or you're
linking students from a content page to a
discussion or web resource. Plus, unbeknownst to
many instructors, images on a canvas page are not
actually embedded on the page. They're actually
HTML code linking back to the specific image in
the files area. Your course is likely full of
links, and we all know links break. The good news
is you don't have to go through every page in your
course every semester double checking that all
your links work, because canvas will do it for you
after you've imported your content into the new
semester's teaching shell. But before you publish
the course, you'll want to use the Validate Links
in Content tool. Let me show you what it looks
like in a course. To find the Validate Links tool,
click settings. In the course navigation, select
the Validate Links in Content option in the right
menu bar. Then click the Start Link Validation
button. The tool will scan your entire course and
give you a report that shows which links don't
appear to be working, where they're located in the
course, and what the issue likely is. Let's talk
about deciphering the report results. This first
error tells me there is deleted content on the
Meet Your Classmates discussion page, and the
error itself shows as this download link with an
image icon that invariably means the image on the
page isn't displaying properly. To check, I'll
right click on the title of the page. I like to
open things in a new tab so I don't lose my place
in this link validator page. When I go to the Meet
Your Classmates discussion, sure enough, the
banner isn't displaying. To remedy it, I can
simply re-import the image properly. I'll make
sure it has appropriate alt text.
And then save the page. The next error indicates
non-existent content. This typically means the
link is going to a page in your course that no
longer exists. Usually because you change the page
title after creating the link to fix that. Open
the editor on the problem page and I'm just going
to check. Yes, indeed. It's telling me the page
does not exist. So I can go back here and as
before, will simply relink. By first removing the
bad link, highlighting the descriptive link text
and then choosing coarse links, finding the
correct page or whatever it is you are linking to
and then saving the page. The learning links page
has two errors. This first tells us a link is
going to a different course. That might happen
when you import content from another course or a
previous semester. Shell. Typically, the links get
updated during the import process, but if the link
wasn't embedded correctly, it may still lead back
to the previous course. You'll still see it
because you're in both courses, but it will be a
problem for your current students since they're
not likely to be enrolled in the other course.
Shell. If I go to the page and click the link, it
looks fine to me, but here's how to tell it's a
problem up here in the U. RL, it identifies the
course as 28409. When I go back to the original
page, the learning links page, it tells me I'm in
course 28541 whoops different course. So to fix it,
just as we did before, you'll remove the offending
link and re link it to the correct page in this
course shell. The other link says external links
were unreachable. Canvas is a secure environment,
meaning you have to log in to access it, and it
doesn't like taking students outside of canvas. So
this error will show up with links leading to an
external web site. The link may or may not
actually be broken, but you'll want to confirm
that. So again go to the page. We're going to look
for case studies of real scientific experiments
when I click it. Yes, indeed. This is a broken
page on that external website. To correct it. I'd
have to do a little detective work to find either
the correct page on this website, or a new webpage
that gives students the content I want. And then
on the Learning Links page I would relink this to
the correct page. You'll notice right above here
there's another external link on the page to which
the link validator did not give us an unreachable
error. I don't know why that happens, but it does
sometimes. In any case, if we had gotten an
unreachable error on this Virtual Labs link again,
we'll click it just to see. And this time it's not
actually a broken link. So that means I could
ignore that particular alert in the validate links
list. You never know when the unreachable error is
a false positive or not, so it's best to always
check the destination link by clicking on it and
seeing if it's actually going to the website, or
if the page is broken. As long as I make sure the
link is at working, I can ignore that error in the
report. The next error is telling me I've got
links leading to unpublished content. That's a
good thing to know because it may be intentional.
I don't want students accessing these pages yet,
or it may be an oversight. I can easily corrected
by going to the unpublished item and publishing it.
Once you've fixed all the errors, run the link
validator again to double check if you had
external links that were a false positive before,
those may show up again, but you've checked them
so you know you can ignore those alerts. Another
odd thing is sometimes, as happened here, new
errors will show up when I rerun the link
validator. I have no idea why that happens, but
just know that it might. So this error did not
show before, but it's showing now. Just make the
corrections to the new alerts as necessary. To sum
it up, the Link Validation tool is a really
convenient way to make sure you're not sending
students to broken links.